1) Information Gathering / Reconnaissance : Data gathering or intelligence step on your target. Data is gathered in order to increase the attack surface.
  Gather initial information and determine the network range as well as application list
2) Scanning & Enumeration : 
  Determine active machines/devices. Discover open ports. Fingerprint the OS. Uncover services on hosts. Map the network better. Both vulnerability scan and network 
  scan are applied. The results of network scan include but not limited to details of the discovered devices such as IP addresses, hostnames, OSs, services,
  running applications, applications associated versions, open shares, usernames, groups etc. Network scanning process is related to recannissance phase. Vulnerability
  scan detects and classify vulnerabilities found on IT assets. Vulnerability scanners are used during vulnerability scanning.
3) Exploitation : aka gaining access into the target system. This is the step where the security testers take control of vulnerable IT assets and applications.
4) Post-Exploitation : Maintain control of the machine for later use. Determine the value of the compromised machine. 
5) Clearing Tracks
6) Reporting : It is outcome of the actions the penetration tester did during penetration test.

Penetration Testing Standards
-----------------------------
PCI-DSS (Payment Card Industry - Data Security Standard)
OWASP (Open Web Application Security Project)
PTES (Penetration Testing Execution Standard)
OSSTMM (Open Source Security Testing Methodology Manual)
NIST SP 800-115 

Black-Box Test
--------------
Penetration tester does not know about the test
Penetration tester does not given details about the network
Pain is on the pentester to find these details

Gray-Box Test
-------------
Hybrid of the white and black box models
Penetration tester is given partial information

White-Box Test
--------------
Penetration tester has full knowledge of the system being tested. The goal is to simulate a malicious insider who has  knowledge and possibly basic credentials
for the target system. 
